faq.rst, before:

Frequently Asked Questions
=============================

Why was Protobuild created?
--------------------------------

I created Protobuild in July 2013 when I started having to manage targeting 3 
desktop platforms for a game.  At the time I had 3 project files for every
library and executable, and it was no longer maintainable between keeping
files and references in sync.  I investigated project generators, but the only
project generators that were developed were one-way; if you wanted to add new
files to your project, you had to manually modify project definitions.

So I set out to build a project generator that would operate in a way that
would allow for two-way synchronisation, provide very simple mechanisms for
generating projects.  I didn't want people to have to install anything either,
hence the reason Protobuild ships as a single executable, included in
repositories that use it for generation.

In March 2014, Protobuild was adopted by `MonoGame`_.  Protobuild is now
capable of generating projects for 12 different platforms, and is used by
a variety of open and closed source projects.

.. _MonoGame: http://www.monogame.net/

What platforms can Protobuild generate projects for?
-------------------------------------------------------

Protobuild supports the following platforms out-of-the-box:

  * Android (via Xamarin)
  * iOS (via Xamarin)
  * Linux
  * MacOS
  * Ouya (via Xamarin)
  * PCL (for `Bait-and-Switch PCL`_ only)
  * PSMobile
  * Windows
  * Windows8
  * WindowsPhone
  * WindowsPhone81
  * Web (via `JSIL`_)
  
.. _Bait-and-Switch PCL: http://log.paulbetts.org/the-bait-and-switch-pcl-trick/
.. _JSIL: http://jsil.org/

Can I extend it to support other platforms?
---------------------------------------------

You can extend Protobuild to support other platforms by modifying the
project generation templates.  Refer to :doc:`customizing_protobuild` for 
more information on how to do this.

What license is Protobuild under?
-----------------------------------

Protobuild is made available under an MIT license.

Why not use MSBuild conditionals to target multiple platforms?
---------------------------------------------------------------

Unfortunately Xamarin Studio (the IDE used to develop Mac OS, Linux, iOS and
Android applications) doesn't understand conditionals in C# projects, and likely
never will.  Since this IDE is used for the majority of cross-platform C#
development, it rules out using MSBuild conditionals to solve this problem.

What languages can Protobuild generate for?
--------------------------------------------

C# is currently the only supported platform type, but support for generating
C++ projects is planned.

Why does Protobuild have it's own package management system?
--------------------------------------------------------------

NuGet was developed primarily with the focus of packaging .NET libraries, and
it uses framework versions to distinguish between different .NET binaries.
Unfortunately, this abstraction does not work when libraries are dependent on
specific operating system or device APIs (particular those that are P/Invoke'd).

Up until October 2014, the only way to include external libraries in Protobuild
was via the submodule mechanism, where you would add a submodule using
``git submodule add``, and Protobuild would recursively load all of the
project definitions from the submodules.

This works well from the perspective of being able to debug and correct issues
in libraries you are using, but suffers problems when the number of libraries,
or the amount of history libraries have is large.  This is because when you
clone your project, you also need to clone the history of every submodule
and all of it's dependencies.  In addition, you also need to build all of the
libraries you are using, even if you rarely or never change them.

To solve the issues of depending on large, cross-platform libraries, while
still maintaining the flexibility of debugging libraries when needed,
package management was added to Protobuild.  This allows libraries to be
referenced in either binary or source form transparently, and allows
developers to switch between the two formats as needed.  Being developed with
cross-platform support in mind, it explicitly supports binaries per-platform,
rather than per-framework, which allows libraries dependent on platform-specific
functionality to be shipped in a package.

What files should I keep in source control?
----------------------------------------------

When using Protobuild, you should place the following files in source control:

  * Build\\Projects\\*.definition
  * Build\\Module.xml
  * Protobuild.exe
  * Any other source code files

You should not place any of these files in source control, unless they are part
of a project not generated by Protobuild:

  * Any C# project files
  * Any ``.sln`` solution files
  
Why does Protobuild use XML for it's project definitions?
-----------------------------------------------------------

Unlike MSBuild, Protobuild project definitions are purely declarative.  That
is, you can't declare custom tasks or steps to occur during your build inside
a project definition file (but you can do this by overriding the project
generation template).

This is done to ensure that two-way synchronisation is possible.  If
Protobuild used a procedural or task based system for declaring projects, then
it would be non-trivial to determine how to synchronise changes in C# projects
back into the definition files.

How can I contribute?
-----------------------

Sending pull requests through `on GitHub`_ is the preferred method.  Please 
note that Protobuild does have a detailed test suite, and if you are fixing a
bug or adding a new feature, you'll most likely need to create some tests for
the pull request to be accepted.

.. _on GitHub: https://github.com/hach-que/Protobuild/pulls

.. _build-protobuild:

How do I build Protobuild itself?
-----------------------------------

If you are interested in debugging Protobuild, you should generate projects
for your platform and then open the Protobuild solution in your IDE.  Set the
``Protobuild.Debug`` project as the startup project.

If you are interested in contributing or developing a custom version of
Protobuild, you'll need to run the ``Build/rebuild.sh`` script, which will
build and compress Protobuild to produce the resulting executable.

Commit message:

Add FAQ section on project GUIDs

faq.rst, after:

Frequently Asked Questions
=============================

Why was Protobuild created?
--------------------------------

I created Protobuild in July 2013 when I started having to manage targeting 3 
desktop platforms for a game.  At the time I had 3 project files for every
library and executable, and it was no longer maintainable between keeping
files and references in sync.  I investigated project generators, but the only
project generators that were developed were one-way; if you wanted to add new
files to your project, you had to manually modify project definitions.

So I set out to build a project generator that would operate in a way that
would allow for two-way synchronisation, provide very simple mechanisms for
generating projects.  I didn't want people to have to install anything either,
hence the reason Protobuild ships as a single executable, included in
repositories that use it for generation.

In March 2014, Protobuild was adopted by `MonoGame`_.  Protobuild is now
capable of generating projects for 12 different platforms, and is used by
a variety of open and closed source projects.

.. _MonoGame: http://www.monogame.net/

What platforms can Protobuild generate projects for?
-------------------------------------------------------

Protobuild supports the following platforms out-of-the-box:

  * Android (via Xamarin)
  * iOS (via Xamarin)
  * Linux
  * MacOS
  * Ouya (via Xamarin)
  * PCL (for `Bait-and-Switch PCL`_ only)
  * PSMobile
  * Windows
  * Windows8
  * WindowsPhone
  * WindowsPhone81
  * Web (via `JSIL`_)
  
.. _Bait-and-Switch PCL: http://log.paulbetts.org/the-bait-and-switch-pcl-trick/
.. _JSIL: http://jsil.org/

Can I extend it to support other platforms?
---------------------------------------------

You can extend Protobuild to support other platforms by modifying the
project generation templates.  Refer to :doc:`customizing_protobuild` for 
more information on how to do this.

What license is Protobuild under?
-----------------------------------

Protobuild is made available under an MIT license.

Why not use MSBuild conditionals to target multiple platforms?
---------------------------------------------------------------

Unfortunately Xamarin Studio (the IDE used to develop Mac OS, Linux, iOS and
Android applications) doesn't understand conditionals in C# projects, and likely
never will.  Since this IDE is used for the majority of cross-platform C#
development, it rules out using MSBuild conditionals to solve this problem.

What languages can Protobuild generate for?
--------------------------------------------

C# is currently the only supported platform type, but support for generating
C++ projects is planned.

Why does Protobuild have it's own package management system?
--------------------------------------------------------------

NuGet was developed primarily with the focus of packaging .NET libraries, and
it uses framework versions to distinguish between different .NET binaries.
Unfortunately, this abstraction does not work when libraries are dependent on
specific operating system or device APIs (particular those that are P/Invoke'd).

Up until October 2014, the only way to include external libraries in Protobuild
was via the submodule mechanism, where you would add a submodule using
``git submodule add``, and Protobuild would recursively load all of the
project definitions from the submodules.

This works well from the perspective of being able to debug and correct issues
in libraries you are using, but suffers problems when the number of libraries,
or the amount of history libraries have is large.  This is because when you
clone your project, you also need to clone the history of every submodule
and all of it's dependencies.  In addition, you also need to build all of the
libraries you are using, even if you rarely or never change them.

To solve the issues of depending on large, cross-platform libraries, while
still maintaining the flexibility of debugging libraries when needed,
package management was added to Protobuild.  This allows libraries to be
referenced in either binary or source form transparently, and allows
developers to switch between the two formats as needed.  Being developed with
cross-platform support in mind, it explicitly supports binaries per-platform,
rather than per-framework, which allows libraries dependent on platform-specific
functionality to be shipped in a package.

What files should I keep in source control?
----------------------------------------------

When using Protobuild, you should place the following files in source control:

  * Build\\Projects\\*.definition
  * Build\\Module.xml
  * Protobuild.exe
  * Any other source code files

You should not place any of these files in source control, unless they are part
of a project not generated by Protobuild:

  * Any C# project files
  * Any ``.sln`` solution files
  
Why does Protobuild use XML for it's project definitions?
-----------------------------------------------------------

Unlike MSBuild, Protobuild project definitions are purely declarative.  That
is, you can't declare custom tasks or steps to occur during your build inside
a project definition file (but you can do this by overriding the project
generation template).

This is done to ensure that two-way synchronisation is possible.  If
Protobuild used a procedural or task based system for declaring projects, then
it would be non-trivial to determine how to synchronise changes in C# projects
back into the definition files.

.. raw:: html

  <a name="project-guids-faq"></a>

I've seen Protobuild projects explicitly set project GUIDs, do I need to do that?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unless you are migrating an existing library which has users using it in
source form, you **do not** need to set any project GUIDs.  Protobuild will
automatically generate appropriate project GUIDs for all projects you have
defined.

If you are migrating an existing library, and want to retain your project GUIDs
when migrating to Protobuild, see :ref:`project-guids-full`.

How can I contribute?
-----------------------

Sending pull requests through `on GitHub`_ is the preferred method.  Please 
note that Protobuild does have a detailed test suite, and if you are fixing a
bug or adding a new feature, you'll most likely need to create some tests for
the pull request to be accepted.

.. _on GitHub: https://github.com/hach-que/Protobuild/pulls

.. _build-protobuild:

How do I build Protobuild itself?
-----------------------------------

If you are interested in debugging Protobuild, you should generate projects
for your platform and then open the Protobuild solution in your IDE.  Set the
``Protobuild.Debug`` project as the startup project.

If you are interested in contributing or developing a custom version of
Protobuild, you'll need to run the ``Build/rebuild.sh`` script, which will
build and compress Protobuild to produce the resulting executable.
